#-*- mode: org -*-
#+title: Documentation of VICENTINO-KEY-NAMES
#+author: Johannes Keller

* Introduction
VICENTINO-KEY-NAMES is a tool written in common lisp that generates
PDF tables that contain information about the sizes of musical
intervals in Nicola Vicentino's treatise /L'antica musica ridotta alla
moderna prattica/ (printed in Rome 1555).

In the /quinto libro/, chapters VIII to XXXVIII, Vicentino mentions
many exotic musical intervals. He expresses them either by referring
to specific keys on his custom microtonal organ "Arciorgano", or by
using a custom musical notation. Both approaches require careful
analysis and interpretation, since they are both not fully explained
within the treatise or anywhere else.

On top of that, there are many obvious and less obvious misprints,
particularly when it comes to key names.

So far, musicological studies of Vicentino's treatise haven't
considered the full complexity of the task of correcting misprints and
mapping the resulting reading onto a specific musical tuning.

This program was developed for the PhD thesis of Johannes Keller. The
generated tables provide important insights for the handling of these
chapters.

It contains a crude implementation of a database with all the
occurrences of key names and notes.

Beyond being useful for the PhD thesis, writing this code was a neat
little execise in basic common lisp programming.

* Use
This system is not intended to be used by other systems or
packages. Any required table or spreadsheet should be set up within
the functions GENERATE-LISTS and GENERATE-SPREADSHEETS. The .tex-files
are generated by calling GENERATE-ALL.

By default they are stored in the subfolder 'tex-output'. In that
folder, there is a shell script that can be used to batch-compile the
.tex-files.

* Lifespan
This tool was specifically written for the PhD of Johannes Keller,
therefore there is no intention of developing it further, or
maintaining it.
